prd.md, before:

# Family Finance - Product Requirements Document

## Overview
A web-based personal finance dashboard for tracking shared household finances between two users, including bank accounts, investment portfolios, and mortgage status.

**App Name:** Family Finance

## Core Requirements Summary
- **Platform:** Web application (React + InstantDB)
- **Data Entry:** Manual input
- **Authentication:** InstantDB magic link (2 users max per household)
- **Deployment:** Cloud hosted (frontend only - InstantDB handles backend)
- **History:** Track trends over time with charts (auto-snapshot on any change)
- **Currency:** Single currency per household, selected during onboarding

---

## User Experience Decisions

### Users & Permissions
- **View Mode:** Tabs by owner - "Harish | Wife | Combined" filtering throughout app
- **User Names:** Configurable during onboarding (not hardcoded)
- **Permissions:** Equal permissions for both users (no admin role)
- **New Users:** Can create their own separate household if not invited to existing one
- **Real-time Sync:** Silent sync - changes appear automatically, no notifications

### Visual Design (Premium Fintech Aesthetic)
- **Theme:** Dark + light mode with smooth toggle (400ms fade transition)
- **Dark Theme:** Deep navy/charcoal backgrounds (#0A0E27 to #1A1F3A), vibrant teal/purple/electric blue accents
- **Light Theme:** Soft off-whites (#F8F9FC to #FFFFFF), subtle gray cards (#F3F4F6), same accent colors adjusted for contrast
- **Typography:** Plus Jakarta Sans Bold / Clash Display for headers, Inter Medium for body text
- **Glassmorphism:** Frosted glass cards with backdrop-blur (dark: 8-12% white borders, light: 8-12% dark borders)
- **Micro-interactions:**
  - Page transitions: 300-400ms ease-out
  - Hover states: 1.02x scale with gentle glow
  - Skeleton loaders during data fetches
  - Animated number counters when values update
  - Theme toggle: icon rotation + ripple effect
- **Charts:** Gradients (not flat colors) with smooth entrance animations

### Navigation & Layout
- **Navigation:** Collapsible sidebar (icons + labels, can collapse to icons only)
- **Mobile:** Desktop primary, basic responsive for mobile
- **Login Page:** Minimal (just email input + magic link button)

### Data Display
- **Date Format:** DD/MM/YYYY (international format)
- **Number Format:** Full numbers with commas ($1,234,567.89)
- **Negative Balances:** Red color with minus sign (-$5,000)
- **Net Worth:** True net worth (Banks + Investments + Home Value - Mortgage)

### Data Behavior
- **Snapshots:** Auto-save snapshot whenever any balance is updated
- **Saving:** Auto-save with subtle toast notification
- **Deletion:** Hard delete (permanent removal, no archive)
- **Export:** Not needed (rely on InstantDB)

---

## Features

### 1. Dashboard Home
- **Net worth summary** with month-over-month change percentage
- **Quick view cards** for each category (Banks, Investments, Home Equity)
- **Trend chart:** Multi-line chart showing banks, investments, home equity as separate lines
- **Time ranges:** 1M, 3M, 6M, 1Y, All Time toggles
- **Last updated timestamps** for each account
- **Recommendations:** Smart insights like "Paying $200 extra/month saves $50k in interest"

### 2. Bank Accounts View
- List of bank accounts with owner filter tabs
- Account details: institution (free text), account name, current balance
- Total per person and combined total
- Historical balance chart

### 3. Investments View
- Organized by brokerage (free text entry)
- Per-brokerage breakdown showing:
  - Account type: Retirement (401k, IRA, Roth IRA, Pension) or Taxable Brokerage
  - Current value
  - Owner (configurable name)
  - **Optional:** Individual holdings within account
- Total investment value with historical chart
- **Allocation pie chart** by account type (401k vs IRA vs brokerage)

### 4. Mortgage View (Full Analysis)
- **Current Status:**
  - Original loan amount
  - Current balance
  - Interest rate
  - Monthly payment amount
  - Next payment due date (auto-advances after due date)
- **Payment Breakdown:**
  - Principal vs interest split per payment
  - Year-to-date principal paid vs interest paid
- **Amortization Schedule:**
  - Toggle between yearly summary and full monthly detail
  - Projected payoff date
- **Equity Tracking:**
  - Purchase price + annual appreciation rate (auto-calculate home value)
  - Current equity amount and percentage
  - Equity growth over time chart
- **Extra Payment Scenarios:**
  - Add extra payment with frequency dropdown (monthly OR annually)
  - For annual: specify start date, apply reduction in forecasting
  - **Track actual extra payments made** (date + amount)
  - Compare payoff dates and interest saved

### 5. Settings Page
- Change display name
- Change currency
- Update appreciation rate
- Manage household (remove second user)

### 6. Onboarding
- **First-time flow:** Guided setup wizard
  1. Set currency from dropdown (popular world currencies with symbols)
  2. Set display name
  3. Add first bank account
  4. Add first investment (optional)
  5. Add mortgage (optional)
- **Invite second user:** Enter email to add to household

---

## Technical Architecture

### Frontend (React + InstantDB)
```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── Dashboard/
│   ├── BankAccounts/
│   ├── Investments/
│   ├── Mortgage/
│   ├── Charts/
│   ├── Auth/
│   │   ├── Login.jsx
│   │   └── InviteUser.jsx
│   ├── Onboarding/
│   ├── Settings/
│   └── common/
│       ├── Sidebar.jsx
│       ├── ThemeToggle.jsx
│       ├── Toast.jsx
│       ├── OwnerTabs.jsx
│       └── AnimatedNumber.jsx
├── pages/
│   ├── Home.jsx
│   ├── Banks.jsx
│   ├── Investments.jsx
│   ├── Mortgage.jsx
│   └── Settings.jsx
├── lib/
│   └── instant.js          # InstantDB client config
├── hooks/
│   ├── useAuth.js          # Auth hook wrapper
│   └── useTheme.js         # Theme management
├── utils/
│   ├── mortgageCalculations.js
│   ├── formatters.js       # Date, currency, number formatting
│   └── currencies.js       # Currency list with symbols
└── App.jsx
```

**Key Libraries:**
- `@instantdb/react` - Real-time database + magic link auth
- React Router for navigation
- Recharts for visualizations
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- Framer Motion for animations

### No Backend Required
InstantDB provides:
- Real-time database (serverless)
- Magic link authentication
- Permission rules for access control
- Automatic syncing across devices

### InstantDB Schema

**households**:
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "createdAt": 1706140800000,
  "primaryUserEmail": "harish@example.com",
  "secondaryUserEmail": "wife@example.com",
  "currency": "USD",
  "currencySymbol": "$",
  "homeAppreciationRate": 3.5,
  "homePurchasePrice": 500000,
  "homePurchaseDate": 1672531200000
}
```

**users** (linked to household):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "email": "harish@example.com",
  "name": "Harish",
  "householdId": "household-uuid"
}
```

**accounts** (bank accounts):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "ownerId": "user-uuid",
  "institution": "Chase",
  "accountName": "Checking",
  "balance": 5000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**investments**:
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "ownerId": "user-uuid",
  "brokerage": "Fidelity",
  "accountType": "401k",
  "accountName": "Company 401k",
  "value": 150000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**holdings** (optional, linked to investment):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "investmentId": "investment-uuid",
  "symbol": "VTSAX",
  "name": "Vanguard Total Stock Market",
  "value": 50000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**mortgage** (one per household):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "originalAmount": 500000,
  "currentBalance": 450000,
  "interestRate": 6.5,
  "monthlyPayment": 3160,
  "startDate": 1672531200000,
  "termYears": 30,
  "nextPaymentDate": 1706140800000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**extraPayments** (linked to mortgage):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "mortgageId": "mortgage-uuid",
  "amount": 10000,
  "frequency": "annual",
  "startDate": 1706140800000,
  "isActual": true,
  "note": "Annual bonus payment"
}
```

**snapshots** (historical data - auto-saved):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "date": 1706140800000,
  "totalBanks": 50000,
  "totalInvestments": 300000,
  "homeValue": 600000,
  "mortgageBalance": 450000,
  "netWorth": 500000
}
```

### InstantDB Permissions
```javascript
// Both household members have equal read/write access
{
  "households": {
    "allow": {
      "read": "auth.email in [data.primaryUserEmail, data.secondaryUserEmail]",
      "create": "true",
      "update": "auth.email in [data.primaryUserEmail, data.secondaryUserEmail]",
      "delete": "auth.email in [data.primaryUserEmail, data.secondaryUserEmail]"
    }
  },
  "accounts": {
    "allow": {
      "read": "isHouseholdMember(data.householdId)",
      "write": "isHouseholdMember(data.householdId)"
    }
  }
  // ... similar rules for investments, holdings, mortgage, extraPayments, snapshots
}
```

---

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Project Setup
1. Initialize React app with Vite
2. Install and configure InstantDB (`@instantdb/react`)
3. Set up InstantDB app in dashboard (get app ID)
4. Configure Tailwind CSS with custom theme (dark/light)
5. Set up Framer Motion for animations
6. Set up basic project structure and routing
7. Implement theme toggle with smooth transitions

### Phase 2: InstantDB Schema & Auth
1. Define InstantDB schema (all entities above)
2. Configure InstantDB permission rules (equal access)
3. Build minimal magic link login flow
4. Build guided onboarding wizard (currency, name, first accounts)
5. Build "invite second user" flow
6. Implement auth guards for routes

### Phase 3: Core UI Components
1. Build collapsible sidebar navigation
2. Build owner filter tabs component
3. Build animated number counter component
4. Build toast notification system
5. Build skeleton loader components
6. Build glassmorphism card components

### Phase 4: Bank Accounts Feature
1. Build bank accounts list view with owner tabs
2. Add/edit/delete account forms with auto-save
3. Display totals by owner
4. Real-time sync with auto-snapshot

### Phase 5: Investments Feature
1. Build investments view grouped by brokerage
2. Add/edit/delete investment forms
3. Optional holdings within accounts
4. Allocation pie chart by account type
5. Display totals and breakdowns by owner

### Phase 6: Mortgage Feature
1. Build mortgage status display
2. Implement amortization calculator (yearly + monthly views)
3. Build extra payment calculator (monthly/annual frequency)
4. Track actual extra payments made
5. Add equity tracking with appreciation calculation
6. Auto-advance next payment date

### Phase 7: Dashboard & Charts
1. Build dashboard home with summary cards
2. Build multi-line trend chart with time range toggles
3. Implement recommendation engine (basic insights)
4. Add per-category historical charts

### Phase 8: Settings & Polish
1. Build settings page (name, currency, appreciation, household)
2. Add responsive design for mobile
3. Error handling and loading states
4. Micro-interaction polish (hover, transitions)

### Phase 9: Deploy
1. Deploy to Vercel (frontend only)
2. Configure production InstantDB app

---

## Currency Support

Include these currencies in onboarding dropdown:
- USD ($) - US Dollar
- EUR (€) - Euro
- GBP (£) - British Pound
- INR (₹) - Indian Rupee
- CAD (C$) - Canadian Dollar
- AUD (A$) - Australian Dollar
- JPY (¥) - Japanese Yen
- CHF (Fr) - Swiss Franc
- CNY (¥) - Chinese Yuan
- SGD (S$) - Singapore Dollar
- HKD (HK$) - Hong Kong Dollar
- NZD (NZ$) - New Zealand Dollar
- SEK (kr) - Swedish Krona
- NOK (kr) - Norwegian Krone
- DKK (kr) - Danish Krone
- AED (د.إ) - UAE Dirham
- SAR (﷼) - Saudi Riyal
- MXN ($) - Mexican Peso
- BRL (R$) - Brazilian Real
- ZAR (R) - South African Rand

---

## Files to Create

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `package.json` | Dependencies and scripts |
| `tailwind.config.js` | Custom theme with dark/light colors |
| `src/lib/instant.js` | InstantDB client configuration |
| `src/App.jsx` | Main app with routing |
| `src/components/Auth/` | Login, onboarding components |
| `src/components/Onboarding/` | Guided setup wizard |
| `src/components/Settings/` | Settings page components |
| `src/pages/` | Dashboard, Banks, Investments, Mortgage, Settings pages |
| `src/components/` | Feature-specific UI components |
| `src/components/common/` | Sidebar, ThemeToggle, Toast, OwnerTabs, AnimatedNumber |
| `src/utils/mortgageCalculations.js` | Amortization math utilities |
| `src/utils/formatters.js` | Date, currency, number formatting |
| `src/utils/currencies.js` | Currency list with symbols |
| `src/hooks/useTheme.js` | Theme management hook |
| `instant.schema.ts` | InstantDB schema definition |
| `instant.perms.ts` | InstantDB permission rules |
| `.env.example` | Environment variable template (VITE_INSTANT_APP_ID) |

---

## Verification Plan
1. **Auth flow testing:**
   - First user can create household via magic link
   - First user can invite second user email
   - Second user can login via magic link
   - Third email can create their own household
   - Both users have equal permissions
2. **CRUD testing:** Verify add/edit/delete for accounts, investments, mortgage
3. **Auto-snapshot:** Verify snapshots created on every balance change
4. **Real-time sync:** Open app in two browsers, verify changes sync silently
5. **Mortgage calculations:** Validate amortization math against online calculators
6. **Extra payments:** Test monthly and annual extra payment projections
7. **Charts:** Confirm multi-line trend chart works with time range toggles
8. **Theme:** Verify dark/light toggle with smooth 400ms transition
9. **Responsive:** Check desktop layout and basic mobile responsiveness
10. **Deploy:** Verify Vercel deployment works end-to-end

---

## Notes
- **No backend needed** - InstantDB handles database, auth, and real-time sync
- **Simplified architecture** - Frontend-only deployment to Vercel
- **Equal permissions** - Both household members can do everything
- **Premium feel** - Glassmorphism, micro-interactions, animated counters
- **International support** - DD/MM/YYYY dates, configurable currency
- Estimated files to create: ~30-35 files (frontend only)

Commit message:

Fixed a few more issues in the onboarding and the design baby steps

prd.md, after:

# Family Finance - Product Requirements Document

## Overview
A web-based personal finance dashboard for tracking shared household finances between two users, including bank accounts, investment portfolios, and mortgage status.

**App Name:** Family Finance

## Core Requirements Summary
- **Platform:** Web application (React + InstantDB)
- **Data Entry:** Manual input
- **Authentication:** InstantDB magic link (2 users max per household)
- **Deployment:** Cloud hosted (frontend only - InstantDB handles backend)
- **History:** Track trends over time with charts (auto-snapshot on any change)
- **Currency:** Single currency per household, selected during onboarding

---

## User Experience Decisions

### Information Architecture
```
Household (auto-created on first signup)
├── User 1 (creator) + User 2 (invited)
│   └── Each user: unlimited bank accounts + investments
├── Mortgage (household-level, shared — not per-user)
└── Views: per-person or combined
```

### Users & Permissions
- **Household Creation:** A household is **automatically created** when a new user first signs up. No manual "Create Household" step — the onboarding wizard handles it.
- **View Mode:** Tabs by owner - "User1 | User2 | Combined" filtering throughout app
- **User Names:** Configurable during onboarding (not hardcoded)
- **Permissions:** Equal permissions for both users (no admin role)
- **Invite Flow:** First user can invite a second user to join their household via email
- **Real-time Sync:** Silent sync - changes appear automatically, no notifications

### Visual Design (Premium Fintech Aesthetic)
- **Theme:** Dark + light mode with smooth toggle (400ms fade transition)
- **Dark Theme:** Deep navy/charcoal backgrounds (#0A0E27 to #1A1F3A), vibrant teal/purple/electric blue accents
- **Light Theme:** Soft off-whites (#F8F9FC to #FFFFFF), subtle gray cards (#F3F4F6), same accent colors adjusted for contrast
- **Typography:** Plus Jakarta Sans Bold / Clash Display for headers, Inter Medium for body text
- **Glassmorphism:** Frosted glass cards with backdrop-blur (dark: 8-12% white borders, light: 8-12% dark borders)
- **Micro-interactions:**
  - Page transitions: 300-400ms ease-out
  - Hover states: 1.02x scale with gentle glow
  - Skeleton loaders during data fetches
  - Animated number counters when values update
  - Theme toggle: icon rotation + ripple effect
- **Charts:** Gradients (not flat colors) with smooth entrance animations

### Navigation & Layout
- **Navigation:** Collapsible sidebar (icons + labels, can collapse to icons only)
- **Mobile:** Desktop primary, basic responsive for mobile
- **Login Page:** Minimal (just email input + magic link button)

### Data Display
- **Date Format:** DD/MM/YYYY (international format)
- **Number Format:** Full numbers with commas ($1,234,567.89)
- **Negative Balances:** Red color with minus sign (-$5,000)
- **Net Worth:** True net worth (Banks + Investments + Home Value - Mortgage)

### Data Behavior
- **Snapshots:** Auto-save snapshot whenever any balance is updated
- **Saving:** Auto-save with subtle toast notification
- **Deletion:** Hard delete (permanent removal, no archive)
- **Export:** Not needed (rely on InstantDB)

---

## Features

### 1. Dashboard Home
- **Net worth summary** with month-over-month change percentage
- **Quick view cards** for each category (Banks, Investments, Home Equity)
- **Trend chart:** Multi-line chart showing banks, investments, home equity as separate lines
- **Time ranges:** 1M, 3M, 6M, 1Y, All Time toggles
- **Last updated timestamps** for each account
- **Recommendations:** Smart insights like "Paying $200 extra/month saves $50k in interest"

### 2. Bank Accounts View
- List of bank accounts with owner filter tabs
- Account details: institution (free text), account name, current balance
- Total per person and combined total
- Historical balance chart

### 3. Investments View
- Organized by brokerage (free text entry)
- Per-brokerage breakdown showing:
  - Account type: Retirement (401k, IRA, Roth IRA, Pension) or Taxable Brokerage
  - Current value
  - Owner (configurable name)
  - **Optional:** Individual holdings within account
- Total investment value with historical chart
- **Allocation pie chart** by account type (401k vs IRA vs brokerage)

### 4. Mortgage View (Full Analysis)
- **Current Status:**
  - Original loan amount
  - Current balance
  - Interest rate
  - Monthly payment amount
  - Next payment due date (auto-advances after due date)
- **Payment Breakdown:**
  - Principal vs interest split per payment
  - Year-to-date principal paid vs interest paid
- **Amortization Schedule:**
  - Toggle between yearly summary and full monthly detail
  - Projected payoff date
- **Equity Tracking:**
  - Purchase price + annual appreciation rate (auto-calculate home value)
  - Current equity amount and percentage
  - Equity growth over time chart
- **Extra Payment Scenarios:**
  - Add extra payment with frequency dropdown (monthly OR annually)
  - For annual: specify start date, apply reduction in forecasting
  - **Track actual extra payments made** (date + amount)
  - Compare payoff dates and interest saved

### 5. Settings Page
- Change display name
- Change currency
- Update appreciation rate
- Manage household (invite/remove second user)
- **Enable/disable mortgage tracking** — toggle to show or hide the Mortgage section from the sidebar and exclude it from net worth calculations when disabled

### 6. Onboarding
- **First-time flow:** Guided setup wizard that **automatically creates a household** for the user (no separate "Create Household" step)
  1. Set currency from dropdown (popular world currencies with symbols)
  2. Set display name
  3. Household is auto-created at this point with the selected currency
  4. Add first bank account
  5. Add first investment (optional)
  6. Add mortgage (optional)
- **Invite second user:** Enter email to add to household (from Settings)

---

## Technical Architecture

### Frontend (React + InstantDB)
```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── Dashboard/
│   ├── BankAccounts/
│   ├── Investments/
│   ├── Mortgage/
│   ├── Charts/
│   ├── Auth/
│   │   ├── Login.jsx
│   │   └── InviteUser.jsx
│   ├── Onboarding/
│   ├── Settings/
│   └── common/
│       ├── Sidebar.jsx
│       ├── ThemeToggle.jsx
│       ├── Toast.jsx
│       ├── OwnerTabs.jsx
│       └── AnimatedNumber.jsx
├── pages/
│   ├── Home.jsx
│   ├── Banks.jsx
│   ├── Investments.jsx
│   ├── Mortgage.jsx
│   └── Settings.jsx
├── lib/
│   └── instant.js          # InstantDB client config
├── hooks/
│   ├── useAuth.js          # Auth hook wrapper
│   └── useTheme.js         # Theme management
├── utils/
│   ├── mortgageCalculations.js
│   ├── formatters.js       # Date, currency, number formatting
│   └── currencies.js       # Currency list with symbols
└── App.jsx
```

**Key Libraries:**
- `@instantdb/react` - Real-time database + magic link auth
- React Router for navigation
- Recharts for visualizations
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- Framer Motion for animations

### No Backend Required
InstantDB provides:
- Real-time database (serverless)
- Magic link authentication
- Permission rules for access control
- Automatic syncing across devices

### InstantDB Schema

**households**:
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "createdAt": 1706140800000,
  "primaryUserEmail": "harish@example.com",
  "secondaryUserEmail": "wife@example.com",
  "currency": "USD",
  "currencySymbol": "$",
  "homeAppreciationRate": 3.5,
  "homePurchasePrice": 500000,
  "homePurchaseDate": 1672531200000
}
```

**users** (linked to household):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "email": "harish@example.com",
  "name": "Harish",
  "householdId": "household-uuid"
}
```

**accounts** (bank accounts):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "ownerId": "user-uuid",
  "institution": "Chase",
  "accountName": "Checking",
  "balance": 5000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**investments**:
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "ownerId": "user-uuid",
  "brokerage": "Fidelity",
  "accountType": "401k",
  "accountName": "Company 401k",
  "value": 150000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**holdings** (optional, linked to investment):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "investmentId": "investment-uuid",
  "symbol": "VTSAX",
  "name": "Vanguard Total Stock Market",
  "value": 50000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**mortgage** (one per household):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "originalAmount": 500000,
  "currentBalance": 450000,
  "interestRate": 6.5,
  "monthlyPayment": 3160,
  "startDate": 1672531200000,
  "termYears": 30,
  "nextPaymentDate": 1706140800000,
  "updatedAt": 1706140800000
}
```

**extraPayments** (linked to mortgage):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "mortgageId": "mortgage-uuid",
  "amount": 10000,
  "frequency": "annual",
  "startDate": 1706140800000,
  "isActual": true,
  "note": "Annual bonus payment"
}
```

**snapshots** (historical data - auto-saved):
```json
{
  "id": "uuid",
  "householdId": "household-uuid",
  "date": 1706140800000,
  "totalBanks": 50000,
  "totalInvestments": 300000,
  "homeValue": 600000,
  "mortgageBalance": 450000,
  "netWorth": 500000
}
```

### InstantDB Permissions
```javascript
// Both household members have equal read/write access
{
  "households": {
    "allow": {
      "read": "auth.email in [data.primaryUserEmail, data.secondaryUserEmail]",
      "create": "true",
      "update": "auth.email in [data.primaryUserEmail, data.secondaryUserEmail]",
      "delete": "auth.email in [data.primaryUserEmail, data.secondaryUserEmail]"
    }
  },
  "accounts": {
    "allow": {
      "read": "isHouseholdMember(data.householdId)",
      "write": "isHouseholdMember(data.householdId)"
    }
  }
  // ... similar rules for investments, holdings, mortgage, extraPayments, snapshots
}
```

---

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Project Setup
1. Initialize React app with Vite
2. Install and configure InstantDB (`@instantdb/react`)
3. Set up InstantDB app in dashboard (get app ID)
4. Configure Tailwind CSS with custom theme (dark/light)
5. Set up Framer Motion for animations
6. Set up basic project structure and routing
7. Implement theme toggle with smooth transitions

### Phase 2: InstantDB Schema & Auth
1. Define InstantDB schema (all entities above)
2. Configure InstantDB permission rules (equal access)
3. Build minimal magic link login flow
4. Build guided onboarding wizard (currency, name, first accounts)
5. Build "invite second user" flow
6. Implement auth guards for routes

### Phase 3: Core UI Components
1. Build collapsible sidebar navigation
2. Build owner filter tabs component
3. Build animated number counter component
4. Build toast notification system
5. Build skeleton loader components
6. Build glassmorphism card components

### Phase 4: Bank Accounts Feature
1. Build bank accounts list view with owner tabs
2. Add/edit/delete account forms with auto-save
3. Display totals by owner
4. Real-time sync with auto-snapshot

### Phase 5: Investments Feature
1. Build investments view grouped by brokerage
2. Add/edit/delete investment forms
3. Optional holdings within accounts
4. Allocation pie chart by account type
5. Display totals and breakdowns by owner

### Phase 6: Mortgage Feature
1. Build mortgage status display
2. Implement amortization calculator (yearly + monthly views)
3. Build extra payment calculator (monthly/annual frequency)
4. Track actual extra payments made
5. Add equity tracking with appreciation calculation
6. Auto-advance next payment date

### Phase 7: Dashboard & Charts
1. Build dashboard home with summary cards
2. Build multi-line trend chart with time range toggles
3. Implement recommendation engine (basic insights)
4. Add per-category historical charts

### Phase 8: Settings & Polish
1. Build settings page (name, currency, appreciation, household)
2. Add responsive design for mobile
3. Error handling and loading states
4. Micro-interaction polish (hover, transitions)

### Phase 9: Deploy
1. Deploy to Vercel (frontend only)
2. Configure production InstantDB app

---

## Currency Support

Include these currencies in onboarding dropdown:
- USD ($) - US Dollar
- EUR (€) - Euro
- GBP (£) - British Pound
- INR (₹) - Indian Rupee
- CAD (C$) - Canadian Dollar
- AUD (A$) - Australian Dollar
- JPY (¥) - Japanese Yen
- CHF (Fr) - Swiss Franc
- CNY (¥) - Chinese Yuan
- SGD (S$) - Singapore Dollar
- HKD (HK$) - Hong Kong Dollar
- NZD (NZ$) - New Zealand Dollar
- SEK (kr) - Swedish Krona
- NOK (kr) - Norwegian Krone
- DKK (kr) - Danish Krone
- AED (د.إ) - UAE Dirham
- SAR (﷼) - Saudi Riyal
- MXN ($) - Mexican Peso
- BRL (R$) - Brazilian Real
- ZAR (R) - South African Rand

---

## Files to Create

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `package.json` | Dependencies and scripts |
| `tailwind.config.js` | Custom theme with dark/light colors |
| `src/lib/instant.js` | InstantDB client configuration |
| `src/App.jsx` | Main app with routing |
| `src/components/Auth/` | Login, onboarding components |
| `src/components/Onboarding/` | Guided setup wizard |
| `src/components/Settings/` | Settings page components |
| `src/pages/` | Dashboard, Banks, Investments, Mortgage, Settings pages |
| `src/components/` | Feature-specific UI components |
| `src/components/common/` | Sidebar, ThemeToggle, Toast, OwnerTabs, AnimatedNumber |
| `src/utils/mortgageCalculations.js` | Amortization math utilities |
| `src/utils/formatters.js` | Date, currency, number formatting |
| `src/utils/currencies.js` | Currency list with symbols |
| `src/hooks/useTheme.js` | Theme management hook |
| `instant.schema.ts` | InstantDB schema definition |
| `instant.perms.ts` | InstantDB permission rules |
| `.env.example` | Environment variable template (VITE_INSTANT_APP_ID) |

---

## Verification Plan
1. **Auth flow testing:**
   - First user can create household via magic link
   - First user can invite second user email
   - Second user can login via magic link
   - Third email can create their own household
   - Both users have equal permissions
2. **CRUD testing:** Verify add/edit/delete for accounts, investments, mortgage
3. **Auto-snapshot:** Verify snapshots created on every balance change
4. **Real-time sync:** Open app in two browsers, verify changes sync silently
5. **Mortgage calculations:** Validate amortization math against online calculators
6. **Extra payments:** Test monthly and annual extra payment projections
7. **Charts:** Confirm multi-line trend chart works with time range toggles
8. **Theme:** Verify dark/light toggle with smooth 400ms transition
9. **Responsive:** Check desktop layout and basic mobile responsiveness
10. **Deploy:** Verify Vercel deployment works end-to-end

---

## Notes
- **No backend needed** - InstantDB handles database, auth, and real-time sync
- **Simplified architecture** - Frontend-only deployment to Vercel
- **Equal permissions** - Both household members can do everything
- **Premium feel** - Glassmorphism, micro-interactions, animated counters
- **International support** - DD/MM/YYYY dates, configurable currency
- Estimated files to create: ~30-35 files (frontend only)
